In this lecture, you'll learn about wireless line controllers, advocate VoIP protocol in a large campus,
configuring a large amount of wireless access points individually quickly becomes unmanageable.
You can see in the example campus here, I've got my first wireless app, which is configured with the
corporate line and its settings, and then I've set up the same configuration on the second wireless
app.
Now, that would be fine and easy to manage if I only had a couple of access points.
But what if I had two hundred different access points while configuring them all separately would just
really be unmanageable.
So that is where she comes in.
A W LC, the wireless LAN controller can be used as a central point of management and you can manage
all of your access points from their.
This is what some of our wireless line controllers look like, so over on the left here, you can see
a couple of dedicated hardware W LCD, different models are available, the bigger, more powerful models
to support a larger amount of access points she can give a smaller one down here at the bottom could
be used in a smaller office.
You can also get wireless line controller blades that fit into your switches or routers.
So here's an example of a blade that goes in a switch and below there is a blade that fits into a router.
Virtual wireless controller is also available, which runs in software and redundancy is Sportage.
You're going to want to double up on your wireless line controllers for redundancy.
Standalone access points are known as autonomous access points, so if you don't have a wireless LAN
controller controlling the app, it's a standalone or autonomous app.
Access points, which do have a ULC, are known as lightweight access points, and the installed software
image determines whether or not access point is autonomous or lightweight.
So you can get an access point from Cisco, the exact same model, and it can operate in either autonomous
mode or in lightweight mode.
The way you determine that is by putting the correct software image onto the app.
Use either the autonomous image or use the lightweight image.
OK, let's have a look at the first big way that using a wireless LAN controller makes it easier to
manage a large amount of access points.
And that is ZT zero touch provisioning with zero touch provisioning your access points, discover the
wireless LAN controller and then download their configuration from there.
The way that they can discover where the wireless line controller is is either via the ship.
So with this, you plug your access point into the Wired network.
It sends out a DHP request to get its IP address, subnet mask and default gateway.
And it will also get information about option for EC3, which gives the IP address of the wireless LAN
controller.
So in the ship you've got your various options that you can configure in there like IP address, subnet
mask, default.
Gateway Option three is used to tell an access point the IP address of its wireless LAN controller.
Another option you can use is by using DNS to tell the AP where its wireless LAN controller is with
Cisco EPWs.
When they boot up, they are set like this from the fact that they will look for the next record for
Cisco Copp WAP controller.
So if they do get their IP address subnet, Mos Def will Gateway and DNS server if they have not received
option for EC3 from the DHP server telling them the IP address, the wireless LAN controller, they
will send it DNS request asking for the IP address of Cisco Copp WAP controller.
So if you've configured an address record on your DNS server that which includes the IP address of the
wireless LAN controller, your APIs can find out how to find it from there.
And the other way that this will work is with a local subnet broadcast.
So if you're wireless, one controller is on the same IP subnet and VLAN as a wireless access point
to wireless access point can find it by doing a broadcast.
Obviously, if a wireless LAN controller is on a different subnet, then wouldn't work.
So you need to use the AP or DNS and it's typically DHP that is going to be used for this.
So the way at this point, we'll discover the IP address of the wireless line controller through one
of those methods, it will then connect to the wireless line controller and download its configuration
from there, but includes what W lines the just point should support on their savings and all the other
settings for that access point.
The wireless line controller also monitors the wireless quality and controls the channels and power
of the access points.
So because it's managing all of the different access points, it can set them up.
So they're using non interfering channels.
It will also set the power levels on the apps to make sure that they don't interfere with each other.
It can also detect rogue apps as well.
A rogue app would be if a hacker has added an access point to the campus, which is broadcasting on
legitimate inside, trying to get people to connect in there, and then you'll be able to do bad things
to those clients.
Or maybe it's not a hacker.
Maybe it's just something that's happened by accident, maybe an old app that is not managed by the
W.L. Xi, but you don't want that to be in your building.
You want all of the apps to be managed.
The wireless LAN controller will be able to detect rogue apps, report them to you so that you can correct
that.
We covered roaming in the last lecture, and this is possible with autonomous apps, so with roaming
your wireless stations can room across wireless apps supporting the CMW plans.
So in our example here, we have got the laptop here.
And then you walk through the building, you get closer to the other app and your laptop will then associate
wirelessly to the new app.
Now, you can't do that with autonomous apps, but if you're using authentication, which you definitely
should be, then because the authentication is Hopp is handled separately on the two different apps.
You're going to have a break of service when it comes to the new app.
So if you're maybe on a phone call and your device, maybe you're using your phone and you're connected
wirelessly, you're making a phone call, you're walking around the building, that's going to cause
a problem because you're going to have dropped your roaming if you're using a wireless line controller.
But the authentication is offloaded from the apps to the wireless LAN controller.
You can get seamless roaming if you're using a WFC with no brakes and service.
The protocol that is used for the communications between wireless LAN controller and the access points
is Copwatch WAP that stands for control on provisioning of wireless access points.
It's open standard protocol that enables your wireless LAN controller to manage the apps with what the
communications are encrypted inside a DTL tunnel and it uses UDP ports five two, four, six and five
to four seven.
So if you've got a firewall between your wireless LAN controller and make sure that those parts are
open on the firewall.
With a wireless line controller, some of the work is moved from the apps to the wireless LAN controller
box, where they are now called lightweight apps because they're not doing the same workload that we'll
be doing if it were an autonomous app.
Real-Time Traffic is still handled by the app in order to provide suitable performance.
So there's real time traffic.
If that was going to the wireless line controller and back again, but we'd add some additional delay
which would drop the performance level.
So for real time traffic, where do we have any delay about still going to be handled by the app?
The rest of the traffic and responsibilities are going to be handled by the wireless one controller.
And this functionality is known as split, Marc.
So the operations that will be handled by the AFP are the client handshake when it's connecting the
beacons where the AP announces information about its debut lines and their side's performance monitoring.
So the AP will do the actual performance monitoring, checking the quality and its coverage area.
But information will, however, be sent to the W.L. She and she is going to be taking action based
on not information.
Encryption and decryption is also handled by the AP and any clients are in power safe mode.
Those communications from the AP to them will also be handled by the AP.
OK, next up, let's look at the operations which will be handled by the wireless one controller authentication.
So when you are going on the wireless network and you enter in your password or your username and password,
the authentication will be controlled with the wireless one controller, the roaming control also maybe
they'll it or two to 11 to eight or three communication.
So all traffic is going from the wireless to the wired line is going to be passing through the wireless
LAN controller.
You'll see some more information about this where we talk about that more because it is important also
the radio frequency management.
So making sure that neighboring apps are not communicating on the same channel and causing interference,
the WAC will handle that and also the security management and the UAW management.
So let's look at those traffic flows.
So first off, looking at the traffic flow with an autonomous app, so where we're not using a wireless
LAN controller and you can see here we've got a wireless client and it is connecting to communicating
with the wired network.
So the traffic goes to the app, it will then target with the correct VLAN and send it on to the upstream
switch.
It's different when we're using wireless LAN controller.
Now you can see what happens is the client sends its pocket up to the access point, then the access
point will send it to the wireless LAN controller.
The then the wireless line controller sends it back to the switch again and then it goes to the final
destination.
So with an autonomous app, it goes from the app to the switch and then directly to the final destination.
But when we are using a wireless LAN controller, it goes through the Cat WAP tunnel to the bolshy and
then it gets here pinned back onto the network again because all the traffic is passing through the
wireless line controller, as well as production traffic between your different endpoints, the management
traffic where the wireless line controller is controlling the apps but also passes through the tunnel
as well.
So you can see from your there's going to be a lot of traffic that is going through the wireless LAN
controller.
If you've got 100 hundred apps and they're all communicating with devices on the Wired network rather
than it going through the most direct path to get there, it's all going through the wireless line controller.
So because of this, you want that wireless line controller have enough bandwidth to support the throughput
that's going through it.
So typically, you're not going to have just a single physical connection from a wireless LAN controller.
The switch is connected to you're going to want to have multiple physical connections there to give
you enough bandwidth and you're going to bundle them together.
And for channel and the terminology in eight to 11 and from Cisco is what is now called log link aggregation.
It's just the same as an ether channel.
OK, last thing to tell you about is flaks connect.
So, again, as we were just talking on that last night, all of the traffic between the devices on
your wireless network and the wired network are going through the wireless line controller.
This is not a problem.
If they're all in the same campus and you do have enough bandwidth or not connection between wireless
LAN controller and the switch.
But if the access point was in a small remote office and your wireless line controller was in the main
office, that would cause a problem because if we had wireless client here and it was communicating
with the other wireless client, we don't want that traffic to go all the way over one link to New York
and then all the way back again.
TOSCANI Odd.
Quite a bit of significant delay.
So what we can use there is flaks, connect with flight, connect traffic as forward locally.
So you can see that the packet does not go over the tunnel all the way in New York and back again.
We are just going to forward locally.
So it's useful for small branch offices which aren't big enough for you to want to go to the expense
of putting a wireless one controller in there.
You don't want them to be an autonomous EP because you want to still have the central management or
not case you can use flaks connect.
OK, that was everything I needed to tell you here.
See you in the next lecture.